#summary API Documentation v1 (beta)

= Overview =

Our API tools provide a RESTful way of accessing user profile data from other applications or widgets. This documentation is provided for your usage in order to understand how our API works.

= Making the Request =

All API requests are made by sending a validly formatted GET request string to our server using the API base URL, and any associated parameters required for the method you're using.

*API Base URL:* http://www.ffwd.com/api/v1/

For example, this request retrieves a user's public profile:

{{{
http://www.ffwd.com/api/v1/profile/ffwduser?api_key=abcdefg12345678
}}}

See the method documentation for specific examples of each type of API request supported and the data format returned.

= Data Formats Supported =

The type of data returned is XML by default, but can also be returned as JSON for use in a Javascript application or widget.

For example, to return the above data in JSON format, you would use:

{{{
http://www.ffwd.com/api/v1/profile/ffwduser?api_key=abcdefg12345678&type=json
}}}

= Error Handling =

Error status is reported as part of the response:

{{{
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<response>
  <status>101</status>
  <message>Authorization required.</message>
</response>
}}}

Error status is reported for each request. Custom error codes are listed in the table below.

|| Error Code || Description ||
|| 0 || No errors ||
|| 100 || Invalid URL or API method ||
|| 101 || Invalid API key authentication ||

= Authentication =

At the moment, we only require that you provide a valid developer API key in your request, in order to limit spam requests on our servers. All our API methods currently return data that is publically viewable on the user's public profile page. As we continue to improve our API, we will be introducing an account authentication mechanism for retrieving private account data.